
# Image Scripts
This is a collection of scripts, mostly complex bulk image operations, that I have written to speed up my workflow. I plan to add more over time as I need them. Are you familiar with GitHub and Python? Skip to [the dependencies](#dependencies). Each script is explained in [the documentation](#scripts-documentation).

## Quick Start Guide
It looks lengthy but I promise its only because I hate when quick start guides aren't tailored for people with zero development experience. Also, this guide is for Windows because I've never used other operating systems. 

### 1: Download + Extract
- If you are not familiar with GitHub, don't worry! To download the most recent version click [this link](https://github.com/shaftAlex/image-scripts/archive/refs/heads/main.zip).
- Unzip the file and put it wherever you want! OK I lied, anywhere except for folders that require administrator to access (i.e. operating system folders).

### 2: Install Python
You will need [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/) installed to run these scripts.
- You can check if Python is installed and up-to-date by opening a Command Prompt and running `python --version`. These scripts were written and tested with Python 3.11.5 but they should run with pretty much any version that isn't archaic.
- If the Command Window gave you an error you need to install Python. Head over to [the Python website](https://www.python.org/downloads/) and click the Download button. It should autodetect your hardware and operating system. 
- Run the installer
- On the first page, **please select "Add Python 3.8 to PATH"** cause it will make your life much easier. Then just click Install Now. You do not need to customize the installation.
- At some point it will ask if you want to remove the MAX_PATH limitation. Please agree to remove the limitation. 
- Whenever it is done, just close the installer, open up a Command Prompt and run `python --version` again to check that it is installed correctly.

### 3: Setup Python Environment
These scripts have dependencies that you will need to install for them to work.
- Navigate to the folder that contains the scripts and type `cmd` into the address bar at the top of the file explorer. Then hit enter, this opens a Command Prompt that will run in that folder. 
- Create a Python virtual environment by running `python -m venv venv`
- Activate the virtual environment by running `venv\Scripts\activate`
- Run the commands listed in [the dependencies](#dependencies) section one by one. 

### 4: Using the Scripts
- Anytime you want to use the scripts, go to the folder that contains them and type `cmd` into the address bar like in step 3a. 
- Typically, you will want to activate your Python virtual environment before running the scripts. Run `venv\Scripts\activate` unless it is still active from step 3d.
- To run a script, type `python` or `py` followed by the name of the script. It must include the `.py`. For example, `python deleteBlanks.py`.
- From here, the script will ask you for any information it needs, usually just the folder to look through, but sometimes it asks for more. Pro tip: right click to paste in a Command Prompt because CRTL + V does not work.

That's all there is to it! Just remember, *there is no undo!!!*

## Dependencies
```pip install pillow```

Yeah that's the only one for now :3

## Scripts Documentation
This is a work in progress but so are the scripts!

# deleteBlanks.py
Useful for removing images generated by other bulk processes that do not contain useful information.
- Requests a directory to process
- Deletes .png images if they are completely blank (specifically black images with no value in any color channel)
- This is not very flexible but I will update it to allow for more options later